=pod

=head1 NAME

x10d.pl - X10 scheduling daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

x10d.pl [OPTIONS]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=over 4

=item -d

run server as a daemon

=item -f <file>

specify config file

=item -q <query>

query for a particular location and exit

=item -h

display help and exit

=item -v

display version and exit

=back

=head1 SCHEDULE

The schedule is made up of jobs.  Each line is a new spec of this format:
<spec> <commands>

The specs are defined in more detail below.  Specs provide the contidion that
must be met in order to execute the command portion of the job.
Location-based specs require the %location configuration directive.

=head1 SPECS

Time-Based Specs look very similar to linux cron entries.  Surrounded by braces.
C<{0 0 * * *} A_ALO>

B<Predefined Specs>

=over 4

=item @startup

Run once, when the daemon starts normally

=item @shutdown

Run once, when the daemon stops normally

=item @yearly

Run once a year C<{0 0 1 1 *}>

=item @monthly

Run once a month C<{0 0 1 * *}>

=item @weekly

Run once a week C<{0 0 * * 0}>

=item @hourly

Run once an hour C<{0 * * * *}>

=item @midnight

Run once a day at midnight C<{0 0 * * *}>

=item @noon

Run once a day at noon C<{0 12 * * *}>

=item @sunrise

Run once at sunrise [location-based, optional offset in minutes]

=item @sunset

Run once at sunset [location-based, optional offset in minutes]

=back

There are also pre-defined weather specs.

=over 4

=item @wx(cold)

Run once when temperature falls below freezing [location-lased]

=item @wx(warm)

Run once when temperature enters the range 0-30 C [location-lased]

=item @wx(hot)

Run once when temperature goes above 30 C [location-lased]

=back

B<Conditional Specs> are evaluated once per minute to see if a condition is
true.  If the condition evaluates to 'true' then the supplied commands will be
executed.

There are some pre-defined variables that can be used as a part of the
expression.

Examples of a conditional spec would be:
  [true] A1_ON
  [0 < wx(temp) < 30] A1_ON
  [is(tuesday)] A1_ON
  [is(yellow) == false] A1_OFF

=head1 COMMANDS

B<House Commands> are the most common type of command.  These are the house code
followed by a device number and an action.  When the action is intended for
the entire house code, no device number is given.

House codes are a single letter: A-P
Device codes are a number: 1-16 (leave empty for all devices)
Actions are one of the following: ON, OFF

It is also possible to set the dim level for a device using an offset.  An
offset can be either positive or negative, ranging from -12 to 12 (0 means no
change).  If no device is specified for a dim level, the last addressed device
in the house will respond.

Examples: A1_ON, A_OFF, A1+4, A-2

B<Null Commands> are generally only useful for debugging.  They do nothing.
Some of them do nothing for a specified amount of time, stalling the daemon.

Examples: <null>, <noop>, <sleep 1>

B<Function Commands> are not implemented yet, but would be to perform built-in
actions, such as restart the daemon.  I'm not sure if they'll ever be used.

Examples: restart(), send-email()

=head1 FILES

/etc/x10d.conf

=head1 AUTHOR

Written and maintained by Jason Heddings.

Weather data provided by The Weather Channel <http://www.weather.com/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright © 2009 Jason Heddings.  All rights reserved.

=head1 KNOWN ISSUES

=over 4

=item If a sunrise/sunset has a large offset, it's possible for the scheduler to miss the call when the daemon starts

=back

=head1 IMPROVEMENTS

=over 4

=item Check for valid bottlerocket binary / remove dependency on `br`

=item Use a queue for commands, which is serviced on another thread

=item CronSpec could calc the difference to next valid value and set instead of always incrementing by one

=item Would like to be able to handle random offsets, i.e. for SolarSpec (@sunrise~30)

=item Need to finish wx() specs, specifically for current temperature

=item Add back ability to execute scripts using ScriptCmd (from r20)

=item LunarSpec class?

=item There can always be more error checking / handling

=back
=cut
